[energy hums]
‐ [laughs]
So many years,
I have waited for revenge!
‐ [laughs]
So you finally showed up, huh...
Full Moon Raccoon Dog.
With this rouge,
I become Beniyasha,
Destroyer of Lands!
‐ Wait, Moroha! Hold on!
‐ Huh?
‐ If you use your rouge now,
then you'll be unconscious
for an entire day!
‐ Nah, not anymore,
'cause I've learned
how to control it, Takechiyo.
Now bear witness to the power of
the new and improved Beniyasha!
‐ [growls]
[roars]
‐ Crimson Backlash Wave!
[dragon roars]
‐ Pathetic.
World Reversal!
‐ [groans]
[dragon roars]
‐ [laughs]
‐ [stammers]
[both yell]
‐ Oh, dear!
Master Takechiyo!
[Japanese music playing]
TOWA: "Mayonaka the Visitor."
[insects chirping]
How are your eyes?
‐ [sighs]
Well, at least Kirinmaru won't
be able to find us anymore.
‐ Sorry.
‐ Not to worry.
‐ Huh?
‐ I can still sense
your presence, Lady Towa,
by that sweet fragrance
you're wearing,
like an early summer flower.
‐ What do you mean?
‐ Yes, I've noticed it too.
‐ Huh?
‐ That scent,
it's familiar to me
from the days
when I traveled the world.
[gasps] I know! Lavender!
‐ Oh, right. That's
my hand cream you're smelling.
It helps to restore dry skin.
‐ May I try it?
‐ [gasps]
‐ Ah, I can sense you
very clearly now, Lady Towa.
‐ You can?
‐ Indeed.
I envision you perfectly
in my mind's eye.
‐ [stammers]
‐ Riku! You wouldn't be toying
with a young woman's heart,
now, would you?
‐ Of course not!
A thousand apologies
if it came out like that.
Sorry. [laughs]
TOWA: Uh...
[Setsuna yells]
I can cut down bamboo all day,
but I'm still no closer
to sensing and severing
the threads of fate.
At this rate, I'll never
be able to save my mother.
I'm running out of time.
What should I do?
‐ Setsuna.
‐ [gasps]
Yes, sir. I know.
I should be focusing more
on strengthening my bond
with the Yukari no Tachikiri.
‐ No, that's not it.
I think you've
cut enough bamboo.
‐ O‐Oh.
Sorry.
[demon slayers yell]
[bamboo clatters]
‐ Need any more?
‐ No.
I think we have plenty.
‐ This should be enough
to handle 'em,
no matter
how many Flame Bulls come.
‐ The real threat
is Mayonaka, their master.
‐ We've already placed
a demon‐god sealing barrier
round the center of the village.
Mayonaka won't be
able to get in.
But please be careful with him,
demon slayer.
Be sure not to wound him
or make him angry.
We wouldn't want him
bringing even more trouble
to our village later.
‐ No, naturally you wouldn't.
‐ Is that how this works?
‐ I've been told that demon gods
will slap a curse on you if you
challenge them recklessly.
‐ Oh. Really?
[energy humming]
TAKECHIYO:
"New and improved," my foot!
One shot, and she's
flat on her back!
‐ [snoring]
‐ How much longer will she
remain in this condition?
Will we make it in time
for the coming‐of‐age ceremony?
‐ She needs a whole day
to sleep it off,
so she'll be like this
'til tomorrow evening.
‐ That'll be cutting it close.
‐ A big help
she turned out to be!
‐ [murmurs]
NANASUKE: And up!
[both grunt]
[wind blowing]
‐ Kirara!
‐ Hmm?
‐ Whose grave is this?
‐ It's the grave
of that Flame Bull you killed.
‐ The Flame Bull?
‐ Yeah. I felt bad for it.
‐ I never thought
that anyone but Towa
would do something like this.
So are you from around here?
‐ Yeah, I am.
Though I left this village
when I was very young.
[sniffs]
What is that strange fragrance?
‐ It's lavender.
It's in the ointment
that I'm wearing.
[mysterious music playing]
‐ Hear me, villagers!
It is still not too late!
Hand over the divine treasure
known as
the Blessing of the Five Grains,
as well as this year's
yield of crops
which you have been hoarding.
Do so,
and I will spare your lives!
‐ Remember, your job
is to draw their attention.
‐ You can count on us.
‐ We will draw
as many Flame Bulls as we can.
‐ Watch yourselves out there.
‐ So no answer?
‐ [bellowing]
[Kirara snarls]
‐ Over here!
[dramatic music playing]
‐ Good! They're leading them
right to us. Stand by!
‐ Everyone ready?
‐ Ready!
‐ Yeah!
‐ Ready here!
‐ Yes, sir!
‐ 3, 2, 1...
‐ Now!
‐ Fire!
‐ [bellows]
[bellowing]
‐ [exhales]
Hisui!
[Hisui grunts]
Hiraikotsu!
‐ Excellent.
Worked like a charm.
‐ [gasps] What was that?
‐ [bellows]
‐ [groans]
[gasps] Oh, no!
The demon‐god sealing barrier!
‐ Yeah.
‐ Eh?
‐ Wasn't it?
‐ I'm glad that's over.
‐ ...a little worried there.
‐ It sure was.
‐ Me too.
Those Flame Bulls were nasty.
‐ SETSUNA: A fire!
‐ Everyone!
A Flame Bull must have
gotten into the village!
‐ Impossible!
How did it get inside?!
‐ It's the one buried
in the grave! Has to be!
‐ Are you saying that girl
didn't really kill it?
Is she working for Mayonaka?!
‐ No! Of course not!
Setsuna would never
betray us to Mayonaka!
‐ Enough! We have
to put out that fire.
Return to the village!
‐ [panting]
‐ Help! Help!
A Flame Bull is
running wild in the village!
‐ [bellows]
‐ [rifle fires]
KOHAKU: We'll take the far side!
‐ Come on. Let's start
putting out these fires, Rokuta.
[both grunting]
‐ I can't move.
‐ Neither can I.
[Mayanaka scoffs]
With your barrier down,
this is but child's play.
[both yelp]
‐ Mayonaka!
You're done!
‐ Oh.
You are a half‐demon,
aren't you?
‐ What is that to you?
[gasps]
What's happened?
How could I have
been jumped from behind?
A traitor?
[body thumps]
[energy humming]
WOMAN: Lord Mahiruma,
I know that, as a human,
I have no right
to say this to you,
but I must.
I am going
to leave this village.
Come away with me, please!
[groans]
[sighs]
‐ Good. You're awake.
‐ Why have you let me live?
‐ A strange naginata.
It's like
it has a will of its own
and won't be parted from you.
And if I were to kill you
with it, what happens then?
Will the village be cursed?
‐ Not by me, it won't.
So if it's my head you're after,
please feel free to take it.
‐ Why are you
attacking the village?
‐ I wish I knew why.
I bear it no grudge
that I know of.
Yet, for some reason,
I can't bring myself to leave.
‐ Is that what you're after?
‐ No. The divine treasure
is of no importance,
though it did
originally belong to me.
‐ It belonged to you?
Then the local deity, Mahiruma,
that once lived here...
‐ Yes, that was me.
‐ Seems we weren't told
the whole story.
‐ Would you care to hear it?
[rifle fires]
‐ [energy surges]
‐ Hmph.
‐ We dealt
with your Flame Bulls!
‐ Now we'll deal with you,
Mayonaka!
‐ Stop! Kuzu! Yamata!
Lord Mayonaka is not the evil
demon god we were told he was!
‐ Goro, do not be taken in
by that girl's lies!
‐ I knew we shouldn't
have trusted her!
‐ No! I'm the one
who betrayed you!
The girl had nothing
to do with it!
‐ VILLAGER: It's Mayonaka!
‐ [gasps]
‐ He made it into the village!
‐ We're doomed, all of us!
‐ It's all right, people!
Don't panic!
The shaman
will drive the demon away!
‐ [grunts]
‐ This bickering.
I'll hear no more!
[villager yelp]
[muffled murmuring]
HISUI: Setsuna!
‐ Hisui! Chief!
Don't worry! I'm fine!
Just leave us alone
for a moment!
‐ You sure?
‐ All right!
We'll go help
extinguish the fires!
I'll let you deal with him!
‐ But, Uncle.
‐ It's okay.
Let's have faith in her.
‐ These people had better
be unharmed, Mayonaka.
‐ Once they dry out, they will
be just as they were before.
‐ Good. Now tell me your story.
‐ Humans, demons,
I trust neither one,
but a half‐demon like you
might understand how I feel.
Today they call me
a demon god,
but I am neither demon nor god.
You and I, we both live
between two worlds,
so you'll forgive
my long‐windedness.
The villagers who originally
lived in this place
were all good people.
Over time,
I grew to be very fond of them,
and so I blessed them
with fertile fields
and abundant crops.
Then one day,
a certain man and his daughter
came to the village.
The man served the local daimyo,
and his job was to collect taxes
from the locals.
Before I knew it, he had
become the village headman
and had taken control
of the villagers' lives.
After a while, the daughter
of this village headman
started visiting my shrine,
coming every day.
‐ Lord Mahiruma,
please make our lives better.
I beg you.
‐ Your lives are prosperous
enough already, I should think.
‐ No! There are still
people in the village
without enough to eat.
Please, sir.
‐ Touched by her plea,
I lent her my divine treasure,
the Blessing of the Five Grains.
But her father,
the village headman, was greedy,
He seized it
and kept it hidden away.
I had been deceived
by the young woman.
[birds chirping]
‐ I took the form of a human
and appeared before her
in that guise.
‐ [gasps] You're Lord Mahiruma,
aren't you?
‐ Young woman, you must return
the divine treasure.
Without it, the local deity
will soon be unable
to protect these lands.
‐ I understand.
‐ The young woman
returned shortly,
but she failed to bring me back
the Blessing of the Five Grains.
‐ Please forgive me.
My father has hidden it!
I can't find it anywhere!
‐ If it's not returned,
who knows
what sort of calamities
might befall the village?
‐ I will look again
and find it! I promise!
‐ Many times, she went away
and came back again,
until finally...
‐ Lord Mahiruma, I am
going to leave this village!
Please come away with me!
‐ I was swayed by her words.
After all,
without my divine treasure,
my existence had no purpose.
So I decided to abandon
everything and go with her.
[music playing]
But on the day we were to leave,
she never showed up.
I set off on a long
and wandering journey.
Several decades later,
when I returned to this land,
the once‐impoverished village
had flourished.
It was now known
as Gokoku Village
and was very prosperous.
[sighs]
I learned that the young woman
who deceived me
was no longer of this world,
so I will never know
why she tried to seduce me
and lure me away
from this village
when she wasn't in love with me.
[wails]
‐ [bellows]
‐ [screams]
‐ A Flame Bull!
‐ Help!
‐ [villagers screaming]
‐ Fools! You have squandered
centuries' worth
of blessed power
in only a handful of years!
Just a few years more,
and this land will wither away!
I just want to know
who or what I am.
Until I do, I have no choice but
to linger on here in this world.
‐ [blade pulses]
‐ [chime rings]
‐ The Yukari no Tachikiri
is sensing something.
Tell me,
this demon slayer, Goro,
what is he to you?
‐ My son, apparently,
born of that young woman
after I'd gone.
‐ Then you're the half‐god child
of a deity and a human.
‐ My mother told me
she went to join you that day,
but you had already gone.
When I turned five, she died,
begging your forgiveness
with her last breath.
‐ Pathetic.
SETSUNA: Is it?
Why does your heart still
keep you from moving on, then?
‐ I wonder that myself.
Perhaps it's because my fate
is still tied to
the Blessing of the Five Grains.
‐ [blade pulsing]
‐ [chimes ringing]
‐ The Yukari no Tachikiri,
can I use it to sever
Mayonaka's threads of fate?
[sighs]
What happens if we return
your divine treasure to you?
‐ [villagers protesting]
‐ At this point,
even if I were to reclaim it,
it's too late.
I could never be
a local deity again.
And revenge on this village
is not what I seek.
This place is already doomed,
in any case.
‐ [muffled grunting]
‐ SETSUNA: Doomed?
‐ The result of these people
keeping their harvest
for themselves
while their neighbors
in villages
less than eight kilometers
from here
have been suffering
from starvation.
Come spring, these fields
will be as barren as the others,
because crops cannot grow on
a land sapped of its vitality,
‐ No!
‐ We'll starve!
‐ You can save us, can't you?
‐ Lord Mayonaka!
‐ We beg you!
‐ It's too late for that.
I can do nothing.
‐ Tell me again, why did
you attack this village
when you knew
it would wither away?
If you already have
all the answers you seek,
what still binds you here?
[gasps]
[sighs]
[dramatic music playing]
[water splashing]
[grunts]
Am I supposed to sever this?
No, not to sever it,
but to feel it.
[thread humming]
Where am I?
‐ Lord Mahiruma.
I know that, as a mere human,
I have no right
to say this to you,
but I must!
I am in love with you,
Lord Mahiruma.
I'm sorry, truly sorry.
‐ It's all right.
It's all right, Oharu.
‐ [crying]
Lord Mahiruma!
I am going
to leave this village.
Come away with me, please!
‐ Come away with you?
‐ [gasps]
I see.
‐ [thread humming]
Is this his thread of fate?
MAYONAKA:
Can you do it, half‐demon?
‐ I can try.
[thread humming]
‐ Yukari no Tachikiri!
‐ [gasps]
[thread chimes]
‐ What's this?
‐ [grunts]
No!
‐ [gasps]
‐ [wood clatters]
GORO: The shrine!
No way.
It's my mother!
SETSUNA: So she was
being used as a human vessel
for the Blessing
of the Five Grains.
‐ Oharu, my daughter.
‐ [gasps]
[wind blowing]
[music playing]
‐ Lord Mahiruma...
‐ [gasps]
I've done it.
I have retrieved the Blessing
of the Five Grains for you.
‐ [crying]
Now I understand.
You were right here
this whole time.
‐ [gasps]
‐ I've been waiting for you,
Lord Mahiruma.
‐ Yes.
I've been waiting, too, Oharu.
‐ [sighs]
‐ Did I do the right thing?
‐ My Ma loved my Pa
up until the very end,
and now at long last,
they're finally together!
That's all that matters.
When it comes to love,
there is no right or wrong.
KUZU: Gokoku Village is back
to being impoverished again,
so naturally
we didn't get paid
or even thanked,
come to think of it.
YAMATA: Great. We came
all this way for nothing.
Why did we ever agree to come
to such a remote area, anyway?
‐ Everyone, I'm sorry.
I know I acted selfishly
and it's cost you all a lot.
‐ Oh, no need to apologize,
really.
‐ Yeah, Setsuna. Don't worry.
‐ Yeah, we didn't slay
the demon god,
but at least we did slay
something truly terrifying.
‐ What's so truly terrifying?
[both chuckle]
‐ Go on and tell 'em, Kohaku.
‐ [clears throat]
Something we call human greed.
‐ Oh, I see.
‐ Kohaku, you raised
good demon slayers,
‐ I mean it.
‐ Thank you.
KUZU: Let's go demon‐slaying
again sometime, Setsuna.
‐ [chuckles]
‐ [blade pulses]
‐ [chime rings]
What's this feeling?
[Japanese music playing]
[music playing]
MOROHA: Okay,
time to kick some butt!
Whoa, hold on.
No way!
Mom and Dad were the ones
who fought and sealed away
the Full Moon Raccoon Dog?
In that case, Takechiyo,
leave this whole Mamidaira
family feud to yours truly!
I'll handle it!
Next time on Yashahime:
"Battle on the New Moon,
Part 1."
Wait. You mean
there's a Part 2?